---
layout: post
title:  "Ich bin ein Berliner"
date:   2025-05-05 12:00:00
categories: jekyll update
background: 5166150953_ed4d217f18_o.jpg
strapline: I am a jelly donut? No stupid, that's a myth.
---

Three years ago, when I first met my partner, I knew that she wanted to move to Berlin. I didn't think anything of it back then, as I was in the first lovely flushes of a relationship, was still in a whirlwind of discovering my new home of London, and didn't know what the future might hold in the next week, let alone years in the future.

To be frank, I never thout it would actually happen. But here I am now, with the same wonderful woman, packing up the last of our belongings as we prepare to move across Europe to another city. 

So why am I doing it? Well, love for one thing. I've seen enough bad things in my life to know that a true loving relationship is a precious thing, and that you'll do anything to be with that person. If my partner said she wanted to move to Tazmania, I'd be clamping down on the spider fears and buying a cork hat. If she said she wanted to go to Greenland, I'd be taking snowmobile lessons and learning Kalaallisut. 

Happily however, we both want to move there and our relationship isn't as unbalanced as that sounds. Hey, if I didn't want to move there, we'd both find a compromise and do something else. 

But visiting Berlin during [CSSconf.eu]() gave me my own moving bug. It's a beautiful, weird, dirty, relaxed, beautiful city. It's got a quiet confidence that I've never experienced before, a centeredness that lets it and its population do whatever they want and nobody cares. 

It's the polar opposite of London. It's an unpleasent truth is that perhaps moving isn't just about Berlin, but perhaps more about our current home. London has been good to me these last few years. There's lots of jobs here in my area of work, but it's a hard place to *live*. The competition for housing means that [rental prices are through the roof](), cycling here [is dangerous](), people are more concerned about their Twitter profiles than doing interesting things and beer costs £5/€7 a pint. Add to that a newly powerful Conservative government, increasing xenophobia and the weird british obsession with owning property and you have a place that suddenly feels very alien and unpleasent. Which frankly annoys the fuck out of me, as I could spend a lifetime exploring London; I have friends here; and I resent being forced out of a place that has become home.

I'm privledged enough that I've already signed for a new job in Berlin. Once I've finished at the BBC I'll be moving over to Bitcrowd, a small agency in Kreuzberg. I'm also lucky that most Berliners speak my native language, so I'll be able to get up to speed with German on the job. 

Just as I didn't know what the future would bring back in 2012, I don't know what it will bring for me in 2018. 

I'm excited to find out.

